So, guys, now let us discuss the time, create API using which we usually create a timer.
So now let us discuss sumptuary regarding timer creation.
I want to cover as many military as possible so that we can quickly see things in action while implementing
our tamers.
We can quickly move towards hitting the keyboard and see things in action.
So we will start with this API that has time or underscore create.
Right?
You can see that this API accepts three arguments, the first argument is the type of timer that you
are creating now, Linux operating system, our politics API allows you to create different types of
Clymer's.
So I think that the discussions of different types of timers is actually not very valuable here.
So I will show you the demonstration by implementing the real type of timers because there are other
types of timers.
But those timers are not that extensively used.
And the type of time works which wants its applications in most scenarios are in most common deployments
is the real timeline.
So as the first argument, we need to pause constant value, which represents that what type of time
we want to create the second parameters actually allows the developer or programmer to specify various
parameters which controls the timers.
Right.
We will shortly discuss in detail that what are those parameters?
And the third argument is a pointer to the timer.
Right.
The API returns zero on success, otherwise it returns minus one on error and the global variable error
number is set to represent what kind of error has occurred.
Now, this global variable is defined in file error, no doubt ATCH.
And you can always print this number using percentages.
Deformable specified, right?
So in case the time of create returns minus one, you can see that what caused the error by printing
this error?
No credible.
Now, let us discuss this controlling parameters of the timer so this controlling parameters of the
timer is represented by data structure event, right?
Now, within the status structures, there are three members whose value we need to specify the first
member is a Sig e.V. notifier function.
So it is the timer callback function pointer, which we need to pass here.
When the timer expires, it does this function which will be going to be invoked.
Right.
And when this function will going to be invoked, then it also makes sense to pass some argument to
this function.
That argument is specified by second parameter of this are structure.
That is sick environmental value, not signal value pointer, right, and this memo points to the address
of the chunk of memory, which will be paused as an argument to this time, a callback function.
Right.
So it is the applications responsibility to allocate memory and put any relevant data in that memory
and initialize this particular member of this EVP data structures with that memory address.
Right.
And the third, as IGB Notifier member is always hardcoded to this constant right as IGB under Scottrade,
by specifying this constant, we are actually asking the colonel to launch a timer.
Tried to invoke the timer.
Carlebach right.
There are actually other ways using which the colonel can invoke the callback function, not necessarily
through the expiration of the timer, but also it can invoke in other ways what are those other ways
that is not important for discussion here, because we are dealing with timers now coming to this callback
function.
What should be the prototype or signature of this callback function?
There should be some prototype, right.
So the prototype of this callback function is fixed and it should be this.
That is the function should return nothing that is wiped.
And the argument to this function is a data type union.
Well, right now, I understand that having hearing of these new data structures like union sequel are
sick even.
It is something that tends to create some uneasiness, but not that these dual structures are very simple
to use, for example, and seek even data structures.
All you need to do is to initialize these three members.
Right.
Similarly for unions.
Well, there are structures.
All you need to do is to access this member.
That is as I value pointer.
Right?
So actually, Elgort, Sevele Pintor is the same address of this argument, right, because at the end
of the day, our goal was that to invoke the application, a specific callback function fule with the
user defined Aerostructures, which is represented by this argument.
Right.
So time a callback is actually a generic wrapper or application callback here for is an application,
a specific callback, whereas time out and a callback is a generic callback, which has a predefined
prototype.
And the argument which this time a callback function accepts is the actual argument which is parsed
to the callback function for.
So here, if you had past here, the accuracy is zero X F.P. than a Daudzai, well, BTR would store
zero X Abdeh, right.
So now let us spend some more time in discussing the theory and then we will start implementation of
our timeline.
Now, the next thing that we need is a way to specify the expiration of the timer.
Right?
That does after starting the timer, how many seconds or nanoseconds we want our timer to expire or
fire.
So far, there's the standards provide us the data structure, I timer's back again on new data structures,
which probably you haven't heard of.
So this data structures is only used to specify the time.
If you see the definition of this data structure, it again contains only two members, the I.T. interval
and its value.
Right.
These do it well, and it will do Mamasan, again of data by times back.
So now it's a time for us to see the definition of times packed in a structure which is nothing, but
it is again a collection of two members.
The first member represents a time in seconds and the second member represents time in nanoseconds.
Right for standards.
Provide us the facility to specify the expiration time of the timer in the granularity of nanoseconds.
So now let me discuss that, how this item, a spectator structure, is used to specify the expiration
interval of the timer.
So if I just initialized this data structure to as follows that history has taught its value, dot TV
second is equal to five and taught it value dot TV nanosecond equal to zero.
Right.
It simply means that the expiration of our timer is set to five seconds, that is after starting the
timer, our timer will fire up to five seconds.
So this is what it value.
Does setting the expiration timer, setting that expiration time interval for the timer, it's interval.
We will going to discuss when we will actually implement the timer along the way.
Right.
So let us deafer the discussion of it interval.
So once we have a specified blacksploitation time interval for the timer now, the last step that is
remaining is actually to arm the timer.
That is the start the timer.
Right.
For that, we are given an API timer set time.
Just pass the points to the timer that we have just configured past.
The second argument as Nalpas, the third argument as the address of this timer specifications and pass
that last argument as null.
The argument, which I say that positons zero or null needs no discussion because our goal is to understand
how to implement the timer based programs, our time with the state machine.
Also, the arguments which we are skipping are actually optional arguments are and do not require a
mandatory discussion in order to understand how Taimur works.
So now I know it's quite a boring and too much of a theory, so let us put all the pieces together and
write our demo program.
Right.